---
layout: post
title: Weeks 8-10
---
When I went back to school for computer science, I don't think I realized how much of life would become about trees (or graphs really). In computer science, many problems are modeled as nodes connected via edges to form graphs. Some graphs are called trees. One way to traverse these trees is something called Depth First Search [(DFS)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dfs-traversal-of-a-tree-using-recursion/). In it's simplest form, DFS explores each tree branch all the way out to its leaves. Eventually, you explore all the branches. This post is exploring the last branch in this summer research, which is a long way of saying, this is the final post.  

One of the most exciting things I did in weeks 8-10 was work on modifying the DBT source code with another memember of the WuLab to create a new command called "dbt client". The command along with a Python script that runs a different kind of search algorithm than DFS compiles DBT models into a library importable directly into a JavaScript library. This library maintains the ability to pass in different variables, so it lets you run all of a DBT project's SQL queries in browser. 

Besides working on DBT client, I also worked on training the FIST team to begin using the toolkit we've been building this summer. Finally, I've been working on a final paper with the other WuLab member working this summer under the DREAM program. When it's ready, you should be able to read it on this website to get a sense of what I did this summer in more detail. 

In terms of what's next, well, I guess it's onto exploring a new tree. I'll be taking what I learned from this summer along the way. 

P.S., if you are someone considering if life in computer science is for you, I want to leave a word of encouragement. When I started this summer, I wasn't totally sure I could be that helpful or that I knew very much. I learned that's it's true; there's still a lot I don't know in the world of computer science. However, I could make contributions that were useful to the team, and we are all always learning. Also, the learning is fun, and often you get to do it with others on projects. 

If you are wondering if it's worth exploring the tree of computer science, it is. You don't have to start with a whole degree; I started with a high school class before a long, long break and then an online course about two years ago. However as you explore, you might find you do want to do a degree / career change. To be fair, I'm still working on my degree, and I don't know exactly where it will take me. However, I do know that the choice to start exploring my first branch of computer science was worth it. 




