---
layout: post
title: Week 5-7
---

We refined the Ethiopia app further until we again met with the FIST team at the Climate School. Post that meeting, the computer science team then discussed how to best move from the demonstration Ethiopia app towards the goal of a more general open source insurance toolkit. We needed to translate what we had learned from the Ethiopia exercise into tools within the overall toolkit so that people with more limited computer science knowledge but greater knowledge in other areas could build their own insurance apps. 

This task was broken into two parts that roughly corresponded to the front end and the back end. For the front end, we began working on converting our D3 scripts into separate components that could be reused across applications. This would abstract away some of the complexity while still permitting those who know their domain best to build custom insurance apps. 

The second task was to begin building a how to guide to show others how to manipulate the data pipeline built on DBT. To do this, we created written instructions, an infographic, and a demo video to walk through how you go from raw csv files of a certain schema (where schema means column headers of certain data types) to the final data sets displayed in the front end. This step of explaining your code has been more enjoyable to me than I expected when I started working this summer. It has been another opportunity to take advantage of some of the writing skills I have developed, and it is sort of a form of teaching (i.e., passing on understanding) which is rewarding. Finally, it serves as a sense check on prior work and gives an appreciation for the accomplishments of your team.
