---
layout: post
title: Weeks 4-5
---

Towards the end of week 4, we began to develop the front end for our Ethiopia app that would eventually connect to our DBT back end via our Python server (or some other host for SQL data analysis). As we moved from week 4 to week 5, we finalized the approach to the front end and then worked to add functionality including the ability for users to adjust inputs to DBT from the front end via things like sliders, text boxes, and drop down lists.

We developed two example front ends. In the first, we looked at using D3 to develop a fully customizable front end. In the second framework, we looked at Observable Plot as previously discussed but also looked at [Layer Cake](https://layercake.graphics/). Layer Cake provides a Svelte specific graphics framework. It takes advantage of the ability to get the context of data in Svelte and chart-container divs to simplify the graphics process. It however still allows for customized components. This creates a middle ground between D3 and something like Observable Plot. After meeting with the FIST team, we elected to go with D3 as it provides more guarantee that functionality can be customized to fit future needs. 

The next item we worked on was integrating the front end including user adjusted inputs like sliders to the back end for DBT. This took a little bit of time, but ultimately, we were able to use a parameter dictionary to track changes to input variables. This parameter dictionary can then be passed into DBT. In the case of this app, we so far have used a Flask route passed to a Python server which makes calls to a docker container running DBT in a custom Ubuntu instance. The approach may change in the future depending on where data analysis is done (e.g., in a database stored in the front end versus somewhere else).

