---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - a new demo application
---

When I was in undergrad, I studied international economics (with a focus on financial economics), but I was a student in the College of Arts and Letters. That meant I spent a lot of time reading and being asked to speak.

When I went back to school for computer science, I was pretty sure math courses I had taken would be helpful and economics as a field of study made me comfortable with abstraction. What I was a little worried about though was that although I had done some coding and even used it at work, I was less sure how I would stack up in formal computer science courses.

Computer science courses are hard, and there are times that have been humbling when I felt very confident only to find out I had an error…or ten. That said or because of the rigor of computer science, I have leaned on my extroversion and writing courses much more than I thought I would.

Doing hard things requires debate and development plans that break work into parts without losing the bigger picture. I think it would be pretty hard to take on bigger computer science projects on your own. For example, this one article I found noted that the Linux kernel (the base of a popular operating system like Windows) is more than 27 million lines ([source](https://www.linux.com/news/linux-in-2020-27-8-million-lines-of-code-in-the-kernel-1-3-million-in-systemd/)).

Take another example like in week two of our project where we had the basics down, but we needed to connect the dots. That meant my teammate and I needed to come up with a simple demo app that connected some sort of data visualization we created in Svelte to a backend Python server running Flask and a package that could execute calls to Docker. We also wanted to integrate some simple demonstration of logging and displaying user feedback.

First, we created a simple demo server that served Flask routes to a basic HTML page. Why’d we make this? Because at first, we couldn’t get the app to run with the more complicated front end. One thing I’ve tried to take away from my classes since coming back to school are that big problems need to be made smaller. So, first we made the test server and confirmed that we could serve routes as we wanted and that we could make Docker run. We needed Docker to run because we have a container with an Ubuntu Linux distribution that hosts DBT and its associated models.

Then we modified this backend to connect to a front end, of which we made two versions. One front end was more complex using [D3](https://d3js.org/) (a data visualization library for JavaScript) to create several charts. Users were also given the ability to provide feedback by a username to be stored in a database and displayed on the webpage.

Our second app was simpler on the front end, but it focused on breaking the chart script into a separate component in Svelte, and we tried to use more of the pure Svelte syntax for things. We got help from some from the [Svelte REPL](https://svelte.dev/repl/hello-world?version=3.48.0) (check it out if you want to play around with Svelte— google something like “bar chart Svelte REPL” to see more examples in it).

