---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

Week 3 was the beginning of learning more about data visualization for me. Coming into the summer, I had a good amount of experience with back end items like databases and Flask. This summer has been a chance for me to practice more with data visualization on the front end of a web app after working with the back end. 

What does data visualization mean? For me, it means a drawing that captures the meaning behind a dataset. For example, if we have a table with rain data by year, we could draw a line that shows average rainfall in each year. Doing this would let us understand which years were rainy and which were dry. 

Ok, but then how do you draw in computer code, which is based on written language? It’s kind of like if you gave someone instructions on how to make a drawing. You might say first draw a circle, then fill in the circle with blue. Drawing in a computer language is like that, but you also need to be specific about how you interpret the data and where exactly to draw things. People can discern context easily, but computers have a harder time with that. 

On a basic level, we want the computer to draw Scalar Vector Graphics ([SVGs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics)), usually as charts. To do this we could use something like [D3](https://d3js.org/). However, to make it easier for the computer to understand context and reduce the amount of writing we need to do, we can also use something like [Observable Plot](https://observablehq.com/@observablehq/plot). Observable plot is a library in JavaScript that makes it easier to do some types of data visualization. 

A library is a collection of code, which you access through an Application Programming Interface ([API](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/API)). You can think of it like a spell book, where each API call is a specific spell. Then to be a good data library wizard, you need to read the corresponding API. That took up a good amount of time for me during week 3. While we may not use Observable Plot for everything, it’s important to look at any problem (including data visualization) from a few angles to understand how you might most efficiently solve it. 

Finally, I also looked into [Arquero](https://observablehq.com/@uwdata/arquero) a little bit, which is a way of rendering and manipulating table data. This will likely not be used in our project given we mostly want to create graphs in the front end, but Arquero is an interesting tool in that it lets you do quite a lot in the front end that might traditionally belong to the backend. 

